[Transcript missing]
Well, other than being nervous,
here we go.
Daylight is actually that slide's
not supposed to show up like that.
But Daylight is a contact
and sales management solution
specifically catered to small
businesses and sales professionals.
So 1 to 25 kind of users.
So it's an end user kind of solution.
We fit in right into the
day-to-day applications for
that target market such as Word,
Excel, Mail, that kind of thing.
It's an application that
has to be up all the time.
So this is what it looks like.
It's very graphical, a lot of graphs,
a lot of nice little calendar
bubbles and so on and so forth.
I'll get into the Daylight specifics.
First of all, it's 100% an
Objective-C Cocoa application.
It connects through the OpenBase APIs.
They're Cocoa APIs, actually.
They have a whole bunch of APIs.
It's built with Xcode, Interface Builder,
EOModeler, EOGenerator, CVS,
Bash scripts.
Is anybody familiar
with EOF or Core Data,
that type of thing?
So, a few of you.
So, we've used some of those techniques.
While we haven't used their technology,
we've used some of those techniques
to build our application.
And also, the whole development
process was very iterative.
And I'll get back to this.
I mentioned this for a reason.
So, next thing was, you know,
how do I add some value to this
presentation other than showing
you actually a product demo,
which you can download
and see for yourselves?
So, I figured we'll show you a little bit
about how we built this application.
First of all,
it's a hybrid object relational system.
It's totally key value coding compliant,
KVC compliant.
And first of all, we -- oh,
wrong order here.
First of all,
we start off with foundation.
So, as everybody knows,
any Cocoa application,
you've got to have foundation.
The next thing is the OpenBase APIs.
And those are also based on foundation,
but as far as we're concerned,
that's the bottom layer because
that talks to the database.
On top of that,
we have our persistence layer
that we've built ourselves.
And that adds a little bit
of a layer to the database.
And that abstracts the database for us.
And actually, this is where our EO model,
you know,
you load in the EO model files and
the whole schema is kind of built.
On top of that,
we have the Daylight substrate.
And this is all objects.
You know, we don't talk rows here.
We don't talk tables here.
We talk entities and properties,
so on and so forth.
And that layer is where all the
Daylight business logic resides.
It's totally UI independent
at this particular point.
The next layer is, of course, the AppKit.
Within the AppKit,
we use the document pattern, so to speak.
And some of you who have seen the
core data sessions know about how
a document works and how a document
is basically your portal to data.
So Daylight can actually
connect to multiple databases
at the exact same time.
On top of that,
we have window controllers.
And it's very much the same
thing as the other ones.
It's the same thing
as NSWindowController,
just subclasses that
abstract a few things for us.
On top of that,
we have object controllers,
also very similar to Cocoa Bindings,
except it's kind of our own stuff.
And we have a plugin architecture
above and beyond that one.
So that's our architecture.
As you can see,
the bottom layer is just rows
and tables below the -- halfway
underneath the persistence layer.
And above that, it's objects.
And that's what makes it
totally KVC compliant.
We also do object faulting and so on.
And so forth in there.
So if you're a plugin,
you can just -- you know,
you're just talking objects.
You don't have to worry about
fetching this or fetching that.
It's just done for you.
So our competitive advantage,
as you can see,
we've abstracted the database.
We could go really with any database.
So we chose OpenBase, number one,
for its data integrity.
In all the years that
we've worked with it,
we haven't had a single
case of data corruption.
We've had issues where
we've introduced a bug,
but that's a different story.
But no issues of data corruption per se.
And we have thousands of customers
in all kinds of weird situations.
Multi-user client server,
unlike core data or anything like that,
is all over the internet,
connect over the internet locally,
on the networks, so on and so forth.
Slow maintenance and
ease of administration,
very important for us because our
target user is a technical neophyte.
It's a sales manager, it's a salesperson.
They don't want to know anything.
They just want to download, click,
and go.
So we have automatic database
cleanup on a periodic basis.
Also, when you create a backup,
it automatically cleans up.
Easy schema updates.
Now, I said a few slides ago that we
talked about iterative development.
Guess what?
A lot of times we would forget the
odd column or whatnot in a release.
And for our users, it's just, you know,
you launch the application,
connect to the database,
we detect a schema change,
and we just tell you, hey,
there's a change.
You want to update?
Hit the update button, and off we go.
We don't have to worry
about dropping tables,
exporting tables, you know,
adding the column,
all that kind of stuff.
It's all very easy to actually
administer and manage.
Small, compact, portable data files.
Some of our customers actually
deploy the database on Linux,
on Solaris, on, God forbid, Windows.
But our target is really Mac OS X,
and it's actually feasible.
We do have customers doing those things.
Of course, an application like ours,
we need some performance and query
optimization and we do use some of those,
but out of the box OpenBaS is
already pretty performant.
And so we don't have
to do too many tweaks.
And in our stack there we don't
have to make special calls.
We do have the odd one,
but out of the box it's pretty good.
Powerful features: we have automatic
synchronization out of the box.
I guess the other one is
change in notification.
In the demo I'll show you that.
And of course our history.
We've been working with the
OpenBaS guys since 1991.
They're a great bunch of guys,
good support, so on and so forth.
So that was also part of
the decision making process.
So I don't know how many
minutes I have left.
This clock is not going.
How am I doing?
Okay, I'll talk some more.
Okay,
so we'll go to the demo and what I'm
going to show you is synchronization
as well as change notification.
So we'll go to this first machine.
This is,
is this the one that's showing up here?
Yeah, there we go.
So what I have here is I installed
on these two computers two
copies of Daylight that you can
just download from our website,
nothing special.
On both machines I installed
the default database,
but what I'm doing here is I'm
connecting from this machine to
that machine in this particular
instance that what we're seeing here.
Another thing that we do is we have,
we use record locking.
Pessimistic record locking actually.
And one of the problems with, with,
with that kind of strategy is that if,
if a database or, sorry,
if a client just dies
for whatever reason,
they jump off the network or whatnot,
and the lock is still in the database,
you have to typically go in
there and delete the lock.
But with open base, the cool thing is,
is that if you disconnect
from the network,
either, you know,
something bad happened or you just,
you know, shut off your power book,
it automatically releases
the lock because you're not,
you're not using it,
which is a neat feature.
So what I have here is I'm going
to make a little change here.
What's happening is.
We're going to make a change,
it's going to go in the database
and automatically without me
touching that computer the change
will be reflected on that computer.
So I'm just going to change
George to whatever and hit return.
And if you could just switch
over to this computer here.
If you could switch to this computer,
there we go.
You'll notice that it's
first of all it's locked,
it's non-editable,
and secondly you'll see that the
first name field has changed.
So this is automatic change
notification out of the box in OpenBaSe.
We can switch back over
here to this computer.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm
going to pretend I'm a laptop user
and I've connected to the server at
the office and I'm going to go out
on the road as a salesman should.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to create an offline database.
So here we detect right away that we
don't even have an offline copy of
the database on this local computer,
so we're going to go ahead and do that.
And Murphy's Law hopefully won't come
into play here and mess up my demo.
What we're doing here is we're creating
the database on a local machine,
we're updating the schema if need be,
we're setting up the
synchronization rules,
and we're actually doing
the synchronization.
And there we are.
What we've done now is we've migrated
the connection from the server to
a database on the local machine.
The user doesn't even know.
The only way they know is if they
go to get database info here,
it tells us that we're offline.
Now to go back,
they come back into the office,
they want to either synchronize,
they can either choose to
synchronize with the online
database and stay offline,
or just go back online.
So it just synchronizes back online,
all the data moves back and forth.
If you have changes on the master,
if you have changes on the slave,
they all get reconciled,
and you're back on the server.
In case of a conflict,
master always wins.
So that's my demo,
and I'm not doing too bad for time.
There you go.
Thank you very much.
Keep forgetting I have
to use the podium mic.
Next I'd like to bring up Chuck Sholdt
from a company called Weather Central.
Chuck is going to demonstrate an
editorial based workflow solution
built around 4th Dimension.
Thank you, sir.
This one?
Okay.
Morning.
How are you all doing?
Here I am, fat, bald, over 50,
in a college dropout,
and I'm talking at one of the premier
technical conferences in the world.
Is this a great country or what?
I love this.
Before I get started I want to thank
Brendan Coveney at 4D and the folks
at Apple for having me do this.
I hope I don't disappoint them.
This is the weather page for the
San Francisco Chronicle and that's
what we do among other things
is produce weather pages for
newspapers all around the country.
And as you can see this is a very dense,
complex page.
I've got very sophisticated
graphics to deal with,
agate which would be all the city
listings that you see up there.
The air quality chart right here changes
color based on what the air quality
readings or forecast is for the day.
So we have an immense amount of
data that we have to deal with.
By the way, pardon me,
like I said I'm over 50.
I'm actually closer to 60 so my
memory isn't what it should be.
So I'm going to use these crib sheets.
Anytime you deal with a newspaper,
it is deadline dependent
and time is our enemy.
And this is what I'm going to be
talking about is how we've taken
time and compressed it through
the use of AppleScript and 4D.
What you're seeing here is a
rough approximation of what
our workflow looks like.
Ten years ago, a group of us bought
Weather Central from its original
owners and we did an analysis
of each of the business segments.
And on the newspaper side,
it took nine people to put together
13 weather pages every day.
We calculated that for
every five clients we added,
we'd have to add one
additional staff member.
Now, to be honest with you,
meteorologists don't earn a lot of money.
I'm sure some of you would say
that's fine with you when you
get rained out of your golf game.
But you can see that there's
an economic problem here.
We just had to find some way
to make it more efficient.
Today,
including the San Francisco Chronicle,
we have over 200 newspaper
customers and we have seven people
producing those same 200 pages.
So that's a dramatic improvement.
But we have to get even better.
Now this is what you see highlighted
here is the data acquisition side.
We get 275,000 files
streaming in from the
National Weather Service every 24 hours.
Seven days a week, 365 days a year.
We have to sort through all
of that information and pick
out the files that we need.
The data needs to be sliced, diced,
parsed, and processed.
In addition to the 275,000 files,
we have to get all sorts of different
information into that database.
And it comes from a variety of sources:
email, websites, faxes, telephone calls,
and includes pollen information,
air quality, sun, moon, rice set tables,
tide tables, salooner data,
weather trivia.
We even have one customer
who wants bat data.
You know, the Austin American Statesman
apparently bats,
or anybody here from Austin?
Gentleman over here.
So that's a big deal and we have to
get that information into the database.
So once all of the
information is in there,
now we have to process it.
And if you see where it says
database up there on the top,
that's the 4D database.
And you notice that everything
either flows into it or from it.
And this is where we're seeing the
greatest increase in efficiency
is because of the use of 4D.
Here's a close...
[Transcript missing]
Let me back up again.
Alright.
I want to just briefly tell
you what we've got here.
Where you see where it
says meteorologists,
those are our older G4 Macs that have
been recycled out of the production
process where we need the most speed.
And on the production side we're running
dual processor 1 gigabit OS X machines.
Where you see the internal server,
that's actually two X-SERVs running.
They're mirrored and we have
kind of a primitive IP failover
situation so if the primary server
switches we can very quickly and
efficiently change over to the backup.
[Transcript missing]
Just an old OS X machine,
a one gigabyte server.
And then we have a dedicated
machine for the 4D server.
When all of this information
is brought in and stored the
meteorologists can call it up,
they can look at it at what the
National Weather Service has provided,
and then based on their experience
they create their own forecast and they
can go in and modify the information.
Narrative pieces.
Computers are very good at repetitive,
tedious sorts of tasks,
but they're not quite as good
at what we would call news
judgment and writing narratives,
so the narrative is
always entered by hand.
This is the production phase and what
these folks do is enter in any additional
deadline dependent information.
And then they issue reports and
you can see in the middle these
would be a series of InDesign tagged
files needed for the Denver Post.
And then you can see that
all of the information,
the style sheets,
and any typesetting coded information
is used or is embedded in those
files that InDesign can then read.
And it does the typesetting on the page.
What we found, or what I found,
I have what I call my hover time.
When we're in the middle of
production I go down and I watch,
watch the people work,
and I put a stopwatch to one
of my better technicians.
And I found what was happening
was that she would sit there
and wait 10 to 20 seconds,
watching the little beach ball spin
for the page to complete production.
Doesn't seem a lot,
multiply that times 200 and a
lot of other scripts that run.
And all of a sudden you're up
to a significant amount of time.
In fact, for her,
it amounted to an hour a day.
Now I don't expect in times
four systems that's four hours
a day that's being wasted.
I'm not such a terrible boss that
I expect them to have their nose to the
grindstone every second of every minute.
But you can see that there's
some possibilities for
increasing the efficiency.
Excuse me.
So, I'm going to show you folks.
What we've done with 4D.
You have to kind of.
I love technology.
Isn't this cool?
It's a little Bluetooth mouse.
Wireless.
Okay,
use your imagination here a little bit.
In the background this
would be the server running.
This guy over here is a remote machine.
Now if you picture that schematic
I showed and you're adding two or three
of these remote machines that do nothing
but sit there and assemble pages.
There's nobody sitting at them,
it's all done remotely.
So this is running a 4D client over
here and then this is where the
production technician would be sitting.
And there's a,
it's very well designed console metaphor
that shows what clients need to be run.
We can sort by shift and you
can see we do it geographically,
east, west,
and then there's a third shift called
nap maps where I can show them all.
It tells what the deadline time is,
gives a status,
in this case data is needed,
and then any notes or error
messages are displayed here.
So you double click and you can
go in and look at those notes.
What I'm going to do here,
and I need to describe this
to you before it happens.
I used to be able to walk through
these things and as they occurred
but it happened so fast that
I wouldn't be able to do it.
I'm going to click on
this mark data okay.
It means all the data files that come in.
So what's going to happen is the console
here is going to talk to the database,
the server, and set a Boolean flag.
This guy over here is continuously
checking with the database to see if any
of those Boolean flags have been checked.
What will happen is it will say, "Ah,
data is ready.
I need to report the files and then
I need to get an Apple script that's
stored as text." Think about this.
I'm going to get the Apple script
that's stored as text and then I'm
going to take it and I'm going to
send it to the operating system on
my machine and tell the operating
system to compile it and run it.
Okay?
[Transcript missing]
The server throws a confirmation
dialogue and lists any problems
that it knows need to be solved
before you can actually do it.
It's a way of making
certain everything's cool.
Click on yes.
Now it's sitting out there watching.
It'll take a second here.
There it goes.
The files have been reported.
Now it's going to launch QuarkXPress.
And now it's going to launch QuarkXPress.
Come on.
Oh, see, I've got an error.
Well, wouldn't you know this
was going to happen to me.
I told Avi it was going to happen to him.
What's the error?
Page problem encounter by a designer.
Let me clear these errors and
we'll try it one more time.
Anybody here from Quark?
Good.
I knew I should have done this
in InDesign instead of Quark.
Okay.
Let me try something real quick here.
Bear with me.
It works, it really does.
And it's not 4D's fault,
I can tell you that right now.
Okay, we're going to mark data okay,
clear the error message.
It will re-report the files.
Reports the files.
I'm bummed.
Let me do this real quick.
See if we can't get this to work.
It worked, okay?
Now, so the page has been assembled.
The production technician would come
in and they need to proofread the page.
So they would open up the page,
make any changes that needed to be made,
save it,
Close it, come back,
and mark the pages proofed.
Well, I apologize folks.
I don't know what happened.
Anyhow,
that's my story and I'm sticking to it.
It is very fast, it's very efficient,
and it does work.
Thank you very much.
It's probably our fault for asking folks
to take client-server processes and cram
them all onto a single PowerBook and
without a whole lot of notice can come
up here and try and deliver those.
So it did work in rehearsal.
I can vouch for Chuck.
The next solution we'd like to focus
on is a patient management solution
built by folks at InfoMatrix using
FileMaker Pro and a complementary
product known as SyncDeck.
And so we'll call up Eric Jungemann
to present the InfoMatrix story.
Damn!
I did a good job.
Oh, thanks.
How many folks in here
have used FileMaker before?
Wow, that's great.
That's fantastic.
So today I'm going to talk
about a couple of things.
One is a concept called the Nimble App.
In fact, the other two presenters are
really demonstrating a lot of the
characteristics of a Nimble App.
And I'll get into that in a moment.
But really it's focusing on how do you
deal with things called edge departments.
These are in the enterprise the
departments that are around the edge
that you just never can seem to get to
with the core enterprise capabilities,
CRM, ERP, etc.
And techniques to use that.
And frequently it's done with FileMaker.
InfoMatrix, which is my company,
is a consulting company
based here in California.
And we have five general partners and
we've all worked together for 20 years.
The only reason I mention that
is as we go along here you'll see
that when you have five people that
have worked together for 20 years
it's kind of an ongoing soap opera,
slugfest, etc.
And from that and from our enterprise
perspective we've come up with
this concept called the Nimble App.
Nothing that we invented,
just ideas that we pulled
together through our experience.
All of us are developers
who as we got older,
as we got more experienced,
rose up through the ranks to become CIOs,
CTOs, general managers,
and senior development executives.
And of course, for any of you,
how many people here manage developers?
So there's a fair number of hands.
You know that when that occurs
and the higher up you get,
the less time you actually
spend on the technologies.
In fact,
you're trotted out for dog and pony
shows like this instead of actually
getting to work with the technologies.
And it's a problem.
And it became a real problem for us so
we eventually got tired of it and said
we're getting no development bandwidth,
we really like to develop,
and so we formed our own company.
So we like to do
consulting and development.
And I think those two
things go hand in hand.
Usually when we're consulting we
see problems that we can't resist
getting our hands into the middle of.
And also because we've been
successful in business and we have
access to capital we've helped
found several successful companies.
So that gives us another perspective.
Now the Nimble app.
I've got a white paper which at the
end of these slides there's some links
or if you give me your business card
I'll make sure to get a copy to you.
And it's a white paper that
talks about these concepts.
These edge departments.
And these edge departments are things
like this and I'm sure all of you get,
encounter these kind of departments.
There are departments that
you can't get to the top of.
So that's the big backbone systems.
Number one.
Number two they might be a department
that's doing something entirely
different than the essential
central thrust to the company.
So, they're just foreign to the
company and they don't get
the support that they need,
or it's something that the
company intentionally launched,
a new venture that also
doesn't link into the systems.
And these tend to be
rapidly evolving situations.
Can all of you relate to
what I'm talking about here?
I mean, this is a common problem and
they generally get short shrift.
And it's not, by the way,
because the IT department
doesn't want to service them,
that's not the issue at all.
This is not,
we're not knocking anything here,
we're just saying this is a fact of life.
And so, because they're rapidly evolving
and because they're at the edge,
because they probably can't
muster a lot of budget,
you need to take different approaches.
And so, from our IT perspective and
our enterprise perspective,
we came up with this series
of concepts to address them.
And you can apply these techniques
to a number of technologies.
However,
the two technologies that I'm going to
talk about are the two technologies we
use to address these and we think that
they're enormously effective to do it
and we'll give you some reasons why.
And that is FileMaker and SyncDeck and
I'm going to talk about each of them.
But the analogy that I'd like to use
was one that in talking to Tyler about
doing a presentation here came to me
because it happened to me right in,
I was developing one day and
it happened on TV in front
of me which is Spaceship One,
right?
The Burt Rutan, go into space,
you know the whole X Prize, three people,
not into orbit,
just into space and then come back down.
You know, wait list for three
minutes kind of thing.
So you got that model, right?
And then the space shuttle model which
is I want to get a couple of tons,
I don't know how many tons,
I want to get that into orbit, alright?
One of them you can fly every two weeks
and one of them isn't flying right now,
flies, you know,
best case every three months I think,
I don't want to, you know,
overly characterize it but,
and it's a major thing,
major multi-year kind of project.
I think Rutan started maybe
three years ago on his project.
You can see that they're two
entirely different models to
accomplish sort of the same thing.
So what are the goals of the Nimble app?
Well, the one I want to focus on
today is common code base.
Okay, a common code base to address what?
Well,
with one code base we want to address
server users in edge departments.
That's people that work
in the office all day.
Mobile users, that is people that are
untethered from the office,
they're out in cars and airplanes
and they're all over the place.
Individual users in
collaborative communities,
they may be,
because this edge department may
really not even have a server,
it may have ten people
that collaborate together.
They may be ten lawyers
working on a case,
you know, who knows?
Web users and a high degree of
integration with the enterprise,
bidirectional,
that is data that they collect in
this edge department being able
to be used by the enterprise and
then being used by the enterprise.
And vice versa.
Certain kinds of builds that
occur within the enterprise,
data builds that flow outwards.
And to me,
because this is not a big budget item,
you need to have one codebase.
You need the efficiency of one codebase.
So let's talk about FileMaker 7.
FileMaker had a booth here.
Since a lot of you are FileMaker people,
I hope all of you had a chance
to at least look at FileMaker 7.
We're hip deep in FileMaker
7 and we really like it.
And I was going to go down a
laundry list and in reviewing
the slides with Tyler he said,
"You know, why don't you tell people what
you like about it?" And so I said,
"Okay, great.
Here's what we like about it." 1.
The ability to do dual
platform transparently.
I'm a Mac fanatic living
seamlessly in a PC world.
I write applications and I don't
even think about whether they're
going to run on a Mac or a PC.
I almost don't give much
thought on whether they're
going to run on the web either.
Closely coupled GUI and database,
that is, you know,
in development everybody talks
about different layers of things
and we're cool about that,
but in these edge departments
we're going to turn a lot of this
stuff over to that edge department.
We want them to be able to write reports,
you know, we don't want them to have to
get in a queue in IT to do stuff,
so closely coupled GUI and
database is a very big thing.
Low QA time is very important.
When you write it,
it almost has to work just
after developer unit testing.
It has to work.
It can't go in through, you know,
three rounds of QA.
There's not the budget,
there's not the time,
it's evolving too rapidly.
So these first three things are
huge and FileMakeR 7 delivers them.
And importantly,
and vastly expanded from FileMakeR 6,
a common code base for webpublishing.
Instant web publishing or IWP is
tremendous in FileMakeR 7.
We take some very complex
GUIs and I'm going to show you
a couple of them in slides.
I'm not brave like Chuck was and
I'm not going to try to do a demo,
just some slides,
but very complex GUIs with the
same code base over the web,
you don't need to think about it.
Quantum Leap from FileMaker
6 but still familiar.
That's a huge thing.
So if you've worked in FileMaker a lot,
the biggie at the top of the list is
in a file you can have multiple tables.
So in the application I'm going to
show you which is used in FileMaker
6 was a 30 file system is now a
one file system with 30 tables.
Makes it a lot easier
to deploy and manage.
It's just a lot more fun to work.
Secondly,
along with that a new what looks like
an entity relationship diagram which is
really kind of a cool table occurrence
diagram that more accurately presents
views the way they occur in the database.
Script parameters, custom functions,
there's a whole long list.
I'll let the FileMaker
folks talk about that.
Another thing that we really like
about it is once we deploy it's very
stable and easy to administer compared
with other database technologies.
It just works.
That's what we expect in the Mac world.
Well, that's what we get.
And we have databases deployed in places
where there's no IT people around.
And they just work.
They can turn them on,
they can turn them off,
they can read the errors, etc.
The other thing we like about
FileMaker is it's of sufficient size.
I think that they have about
9 million licenses out there.
So it has a big user base and
a great developer community
and lots of plug-ins so that we
don't need to reinvent the wheel.
Oh, you need barcoding?
Got it.
You need synchronization technology?
Which gets us to SyncDeck 5.
We had a need as FileMakeR developers
to deploy a synchronized
solution for remote workers,
mobile users.
In this case I'm going to show you today,
it's medical case managers that are
driving around visiting hospitals
and skilled nursing facilities.
And so we went looking for a plug-in.
And our research, my research,
led us to SyncDeck in Berkeley,
California.
And you know, it's fun when you first
approach a product,
right?
You kind of get some expectations.
So my expectation was, hmm, Berkeley,
California,
got to be really smart people.
One of my other partners
sort of muttered,
might be too smart.
You know, this is the sort of Socratic
dialogues that we have back and forth.
Yeah, but what about BSD?
You know, kind of back and forth.
Yeah,
but might be getting ahead of themselves,
that whole thing.
But it turned out that I was right.
Really smart people with
really pragmatic technology.
Now, what I go to look at is
who's using the technology.
And in the case of SyncDeck,
I got attracted to it immediately
because it had a blend of customers.
I'm going to mention NASA and Lockheed.
The International Space Station
engineering drawings are
coordinated in Europe,
Japan,
and the United States using servers,
FileMaker servers, to coordinate those.
And those servers
communicate with SyncDeck.
So I thought, okay, that's pretty cool.
They probably rung the thing out.
And then I found out that it's used
by most of the major touring bands
in the world to manage the tours.
What is a tour?
Got to happen every night, right?
On schedule.
People running around like crazy, limos,
catering, flights, just you name it.
You can imagine.
And it's all coordinated by FileMaker
using SyncDeck technology by a
really cool company called PC Guild.
So I really like that.
And then the sports organizations were
using it for their scouts in the field.
So they'd go to games and get
statistics and feed those back.
So very cool customer base.
That immediately attracted me.
Secondly, it was developed on Mac.
I thought, that's cool.
Third,
transparent in use between Mac and PC.
Now, this is what we expect
in the FileMaker world,
but synchronization can be a
little bit differently transparent.
The current product, SyncDeck 5,
is essentially a plug-in communicating
to a set of Java and XML-based services.
So I think that's very cool.
And leveraging very strong
FileMaker 7 XML support,
which is a big thing in
talking to the enterprise.
I love the fact that FileMaker has JDBC,
ODBC, XML, and all these capabilities.
to talk to something we can.
Okay, SyncDeck 5, what does it do?
Simply,
it synchronizes FileMakeR databases.
Now what can these be?
First of all,
they can be collaborative communities.
If four of us had the same
database and we were in four
different parts of the planet,
we could synchronize
our databases together,
which is very cool.
If you try to think about
how you might do that,
without a VPN kind of technology,
getting involved with, you know,
IT networks and things like that,
it's hard to do.
Secondly, mobile workers
synchronizing with a server.
And that's the problem
that we had to solve.
But I really like that we could solve
any of these other problems as well.
Server to server.
You got a web server over here running
from FileMaker that's really busy.
And you've got another server
over here that the users are on.
You know, it's too big for one server,
although that's getting
increasingly hard in FileMaker 7,
because the capacities for
everything have gone up.
But nonetheless,
you can synchronize the two servers.
So you got server to server.
And a mix and match of any of those
four or three capabilities there.
Jason Erickson, who's here somewhere,
right there, Jason Erickson,
who's the president of WorldSync,
calls it database synchronization
for the rest of us.
And indeed it is.
And we like it because it's
both practical and interactive.
And it's inexpensive.
There's not a lot of plumbing
that you have to do once you
install the resources in SyncDeck.
You just develop,
and it will synchronize.
How it works.
Well, this is the part that
really almost started,
we started laughing when we
got in the middle of this.
One is,
the synchronization is asynchronous.
That is,
you decide when you want to synchronize.
Press a button, kind of go from there,
or run a script or whatever.
It uses email,
one email account per node,
transmits compressed
and encrypted shuttles,
that is the data and only the
changed data is sent over email,
compressed and encrypted,
with field level tracking
and conflict detection,
and uses a FileMaker plugin
with some script and field
resources to accomplish that.
So it's pretty cool.
It's simple.
No complicated server,
no additional stuff.
You just need email.
So you don't run that server.
server.
Transparent Macro PC and
it's a patented approach.
The Syncdeck guys have been working
on this for about five years.
The other things that we like,
two big things that we like,
first of all is VUM,
Version Update Manager.
This is big in the FileMaker world.
We can make a change and then project
that change to any of the servers or
clients on those servers using Syncdeck.
That's very cool.
You make a mistake,
you want to add a button,
you want to add a layout,
you want to add a file,
you want to add a table,
you can do all of that.
Okay.
And then we can monitor what's going
on because we can be a node on those
systems and see the data changes and make
sure that everything's going along okay.
The medical world application
that I'm going to show you
briefly is a critical care,
managing critical care
people on ventilators.
These are the most ill people in
our society and the expenses in
this environment are really high.
And the people that developed the
approach that we developed the software
for really had some great ideas on how
to drop costs and get the care higher.
They have an office staff, case managers,
they have a feed to
National Institute of Health.
They don't have any internal IT staff,
pretty talented office
workers but no IT staff,
and very complex data
needs with high security.
So we use the nimble app approach.
And I'm just going to show
you a couple of slides.
If you just look at that, that is,
if I'm a case manager in the field,
that's the screen that I get.
If I'm in the office,
If I'm on the web,
that's the screen that I get.
Same codebase.
This is an evaluation screen,
lots of medical data,
don't need to go into it, but
Same whether I'm in the office,
I'm mobile, or I'm on the web.
Notes.
By the way, the other thing I want to
mention is that they switched.
We started out,
they were an all Mac shop, we showed up,
we're doing Mac development,
and guess what happened?
They finally showed up one day,
one of the guys had had a broken Compaq,
and we loaned them an iBook,
and it started this cascade.
And so,
In a couple of months they'll be all Mac.
They're gradually all
iBooks in the field,
servers gonna change, etc.
So, very cool and very,
very easy to do from a
development standpoint.
Thank you very much.
All such exciting solutions,
you could just talk about them for days.
But here's our final one.
Avi Drissman from Harrison Baseview
is going to show a number of
editorial solutions after he
finishes blessing his demo machine.
A number of editorial
solutions based on FrontBase.
Good power book, good power book.
Thank you, Tyler.
Actually, a brief apology.
I learned very late that if you leave
a voicemail in an Apple employee's
voicemail box and you start it with,
"Hey, this is Avi.
We need to talk," it
kind of freaks them out.
Anyway, hi, I'm Avi Drissman,
I'm from Harrison Baseview and
I'm here on behalf of FrontBase.
Well, who is Harrison Baseview?
Well, as you can see it's two different
companies but not really.
It's Harris Publishing in Melbourne,
Florida and Baseview
Products up in Ann Arbor.
And we work together to build all
kinds of publishing solutions,
primarily for the newspaper industry.
We're a division of MediaSpan which
owns a couple of other companies
who do very similar things but
for different media industries.
And Harris and Baseview together
have more than 2,800 customers
worldwide which makes us,
I believe, the number one vendor of
products in our field.
And they actually like us too.
I mean, we're number one but we have
very high satisfaction ratings.
We do all kinds of stuff.
I'm not going to go very,
very in-depth in all of those
fields but in general if
you pick up a new newspaper,
I mean,
first thing you see are the articles.
So we have an editorial solution
where you've got people out in
the field and they file articles
and they get laid out on the page.
You've got to keep everybody in sync.
Advertising, that's more like classified
advertising where you've got pages
and pages and pages of classified ads.
Those aren't laid out by hand.
Goodness.
So we've got stuff that will
automatically crank those out,
bill people, whatever.
Circulation,
people are paying you for the newspapers.
So you have to keep track of
who's paid you and you have
to give them the information.
So you have to keep track of
who's paid you and you have
to give them the information.
So you have to organize
who carries the newspapers,
the carrier routes and all that stuff.
Production is for almost everything
else like display ads and so on.
Most customers aren't going to come
to you with camera-ready copy and say,
hey, put this in.
Well, if they do, it's nice.
But in most cases,
they're just going to say,
I'm going to need an ad and it's going
to have to say such and such and such
and such and you get to build it.
So you've got to keep track
of whose ads are coming in and
whose ads are not coming in.
in and whose heads are going and
are the ads ready for today's
paper because you can't hold the
presses if someone's screwing up.
Internet is listed
there as the last point,
[Transcript missing]
So who's using FrontBase?
Well, we've got four products.
Well, three right now.
Circulation Pro is our circulation
program that goes and keeps track
of who's getting your paper.
They're currently a WebObjects
app and they're using FrontBase
via their JDBC driver and
their WebObjects integration.
Ad Manager Pro is a classified ad
solution and since classified ads
require you to see what you're doing,
that's more of a desktop app solution.
So we actually used Real Basic for that.
And once again,
FrontBase with Real Basic plugins
makes that not a problem.
Production Manager Pro,
within the next year we are hoping
to do some major work on it and soon
enough they'll be using FrontBase.
But I'm here on behalf of the
editorial team and we just
finished up NewsEdit Pro IQ.
We just announced it at the
Nexpo conference last week.
That's our icon up there.
That's an editorial solution and
we're building it piece by piece.
Server, this is more of a traditional
server kind of approach.
We're doing it as a J2EE application
using an application server called JBoss.
If you want to check that out, well,
you missed session 610,
but go check it up on the DVD.
But the idea is it's a J2EE application
server that's free but also very,
very powerful and we love it.
It allows us to go access
things using EJB entity beans
we need to get to our data.
Sometimes EJBQL is just not
good enough and we have to
go straight to the database.
We use the JDBC driver and we can go
format whatever ridiculous queries
we need to do to support the user.
Functionality-wise,
EGB session beans and Singleton
M-Beans because J2E spec
doesn't let you do Singleton,
so it's some technical stuff.
As for clients, well,
most of the end-user clients
are actually Carbon apps that we
brought over some cross-platform
stuff with some incredible magic.
We have some Java applications for
the administration of the server,
but those aren't what the
users see at this point.
They connected this server
using a proprietary protocol.
And tools.
Pretty much FrontBaSe is very standard,
so whatever tools we want.
We're also very, very laid back,
so pretty much we build using Ant.
If you want to use a different editor,
go ahead.
We've got people using Eclipse, IntelliJ,
JBuilder.
But as long as you build with Ant and
you don't check in anything into
this server that breaks the build,
we don't care.
Oh, and implementation.
You can implement the
features you need to,
but that's a different matter.
So why FrontBaSe?
I mean,
we took a look at a whole bunch of
different front database servers,
and we decided on FrontBaSe for
a couple of reasons.
I mean, the first batch of reasons
here is simplicity.
It's easy to install.
Now, I mean,
I'm not going to say I'm a stupid guy,
and I could probably make anything
install if I tried hard enough,
but why bother?
When you take a look at a
database solution and you say,
"Click, click.
It's on there." And it works,
and you don't have to
worry about installing it.
That saves a lot of time for me
because then I can go and write
code and do all the other stuff
that I'm paid to do instead of going
and fiddling around with an install.
And it's also very important because
we go on site to these newspapers and
we install our solutions for them.
And, well, I don't go,
but we have installers and trainers,
and they don't necessarily
have all the skills to do that.
So just being able to say, "Click, click.
It's on there." And then, "Click, click.
It's installed." Go on to the rest
of this stuff that needs installing
instead of having to worry about it
is a very good asset that we've got.
Less configuration means
more time to do real work.
And low maintenance.
These are newspapers,
and they've got IT staffs who are
busy running around supporting
wall quark and other layout stuff.
So they don't necessarily have the time
to fiddle around with DBAs and stuff.
So we want to make sure
that they don't need it.
And fortunately, they don't.
But it's not a toy.
This is not some cheap
little database that,
if you're lucky,
kind of works and supports stuff.
It's SQL 92 compliant.
So there are three
points I wanted to make.
The third one I just came
up with the other day.
So it's not on here.
Feature number one.
The thing is, is that it's got all the
features that you want.
For example, subselects.
We use them all the time.
And you don't have to worry about, well,
is this feature in the database?
Did they just add it?
Is it in the next release?
No.
It's there if it's in the standard.
And the second thing is you
don't have to worry about syntax.
For a standard, SQL is varied.
And everybody implements
it in just a different way.
So then the question is, well,
how did they do it?
Do we have to phrase it this way?
Do we have to phrase it that way?
No.
You just open up your
SQL 92 standards book.
And whatever they say, that works.
Another interesting thing about SQL 92
compliance is they're very strict.
So they don't mess around
with any data integrity.
The database engine does not like you.
But by the time you get it
working very well on FrontBase,
you have not made any mistakes.
Another feature that
it's got is clustering.
We took a look at what we could
find for that feature in other
databases and either it's not
available at all or it's at a price
point that we just couldn't afford.
So clustering at the price point and at
the availability of the OS X is a great
way to get the best out of your OS X.
Control via JDBC.
We can do all kinds of
stuff via the driver.
I mean, creating and destroying tables,
sure,
but creating and destroying databases,
back them up, start and stop them,
not everybody's JDBC driver can do that.
And in general,
we've got other issues that
we needed to contend with.
Platforms.
We needed to make sure that
even though it was available on
other platforms like Windows and
Unix and other stuff like that,
we wanted to make sure
that it had OS X support.
And it's not always easy to find that.
Price-wise, for the features that we got,
the pricing is very aggressive
and very cool and support has
been absolutely incredible.
So I'm going to actually attempt a demo.
And so if we could switch to Mr.
PowerBook here.
Oh, cool.
Thank you very much.
This is our administration tool.
Very briefly, I don't want to go into
too much depth on him,
but he'll just show you the
kind of things that we've got.
So here are our media products, i.e.
newspapers.
So we've got the BaseView Bugle.
I don't know,
my favorite newspaper of choice.
Priorities here, users and so on.
But this one actually is a swing
app and it works pretty well.
There's our control app.
But pretty much everything
works in NewsEdit Pro.
This is our end user
app for most end users.
And so let's go...
[Transcript missing]
So you open up a new document.
I'm going to use our styled macro key to
just drop my title and position in there.
And so I'm going to go write a story.
Unfortunately,
I'm not really a fast typer,
so I'm going to go do another styled
macro and just drop one in really quick.
So if we go command-quote,
because this is Geneva and this
font is just up there so you
can quickly see what you've got.
This is not what the
newspaper is printing in,
goodness knows.
So you can go hop to preview and oh,
looks pretty cool.
Hop back from preview.
And so let's go to,
let's turn off preview.
I thought I hit that.
Make a new headline.
Say, okay, it's like 30 inch display
or 30 inch screen WWDC and
so that's going to overflow.
So we can highlight that and go
make the font a little bit bigger.
We can go into the headline and drop
the box down to fit the headline.
Preview that.
Ooh, wonderful.
So we go save that.
We can also deal with images too.
So, if we go in and do a saved
search for our images,
let's see what we can find.
We've got, "la la la la la,
I think I saw the other day
while preparing for this,
ooh Sandra." So you double click
her and up it comes in Photoshop.
So we go and if Photoshop didn't work,
I wrote the plugin for that
so I know who to blame.
So let's go in and...
Zoom in, crop in, save.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And as soon as we close,
our plugin kicks in,
updates the database so when we
do an update of our image search,
there she is, cropped in.
And then finally, since you want to get
things out on paper,
you're going to need to do layout.
So let's pull up our template search,
it's a minimized search,
and we've got Quark and InDesign support.
I'm going to choose InDesign today.
Actually, more for familiarity,
I wrote the plugin again, so once again,
I get to berate myself if
it just doesn't work right.
Zoom out a little bit.
Hop back to NewsEdit, My Stories.
Now since I just filed that story,
that search searches
for anything I created.
It's right there.
So you just take the file
and you just drag and drop it
right onto the page and thunk.
There we go.
Now it actually does match
the margins if you do that.
So you zoom in and zoom
in and the text is there.
And you can see the style sheets
match up and the character
styles and all that stuff.
And it looks pretty cool.
If we go back to NewsEdit,
back to the image search,
you can grab an image and
just drop that on the page.
And if you notice that it automatically
keeps the caption as well.
Should probably not drop that on top.
There is a caption in here.
I didn't demo with this exact image,
so there should be a caption there,
honest.
So I could probably go and...
Come on, I've got to go make a cool demo.
Drop it on there.
And we have a caption on that photo.
There we go.
So that image has a caption.
And so you go and you print and out
comes this huge piece of paper and
the presses that run 20,000 copies
an hour and you make everybody happy.
And so this is pretty much our system
but pretty much everything you see
here from the articles to the pictures
down to the style sheets themselves,
everything is running in a
database called FrontBaSe.
Thank you.
The ground rules for this session
was all the different database
representatives would play nice.
Unfortunately,
I didn't broaden that out to don't
pick on any page layout applications.
For more information,
here's contact information for the
different presenters you've seen.
If you're interested in any of the
solutions that they showed you today,
as well as my contact info on there.
and reference in case you've never
heard of Google or any other search
engine these are the URLs for
the different database providers.